So let's figure out how to swap in these
colors in Tailwind, but like I said,
you can also do the CSS variables.
We actually do like a combination of both,
we have a file that looks almost exactly
like this because I stole it from there.
And I started working
open source code base.
And then actually these are Creates CSS
variables based on that.
And then we create those semantic names,
but it's effectively the same idea.
This is just a 300 line file that
I'm not gonna bother you with.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
So now in my Tailwind theme,
really all I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna import this JSON file,
so I'm gonna import.
Let me just remember what I ended up.
I have all these colors and because I'm
replacing wholesale, the Tailwind ones,
because I don't wanna be able to access
red and blue and green, I have to take
a few of the special ones and make sure
that I include those as well, right?
White and black, space black in our case,
transparent and currentColor,
which are CSS properties.
So we'll import colors, white,
black, currentColor, and
transparent, from, what was it?
./source/tokens/colors, cool.
And again, if you're using regular CSS,
it's just slightly different.
It has this theme and has two options
where you can either replace it outright,
or has this extra property called extend.
If you wanna add additional things,
use extend.
I don't wanna add additional
colors because if I do that,
someone's gonna still use green, right?
What I wanna do is wholesale
replace it with all of my colors,
white, black, transparent,
and currentColor, right?
And, yeah,
if one was to take this next step,
I would take a good look
at the design system and
notice that I'm only really using
three border radii, one box shadow.
May be, yeah, eventually, I think
the real code base is like two or three.
A smaller set of fonts and
spacing and stuff like that.
So one of the recommendations, and it will
depend on what you're doing is to contract
the surface area of the design
tokens you have to work with, right?
Because both designers will have
a bad day and just cut a corner and
not use their own variables.
And then the nicest engineer on your
team will comply with that, and
now you both have a problem, right?
So yeah, now we can construct the colors.
The other thing I wanna do is pull in the
font, in our UI, we use Poppins and Inter,
except both designers hate pop and so
we're gonna put everything to Inter.
There's much ways to do
this in terms of free font.
Free fonts are great because I
don't have to manually do anything.
We use something called font source,
font source is basically all
of your various free fonts,
I think more than just a Google ones,
I think your assorted free fonts.
Let's look at the website, put onto npm.
So you can basically do
an npm install of fonts.
So it's super great.
Also like just for
side projects and stuff like that.
So you can grab any font that makes
you happy, I'm gonna grab it to you,
if you wanna go rogue, and
grab a different font, go for it, right?
If you wanna make the entire
thing papyrus that's a choice.
But basically can go,
find the font, hit Install, and
you can see that all it is at
the end of the day is npm install.
This is a variable font, so it's
variable width and you can tweak stuff,
@fontsource-variable.
The ones that are not variable
font are @fontsource.
And you can npm install this font,
which I think I already have in the npm
install, but you can also run it too.
And then, in my CSS file,
which is already imported in Storybook,
there it is.
index.css, I can
just do import
fontsourcevariable/ inter;.
And now, through the magic of Post CSS and
VIT, or Webpack in this case,
that entire file is being included, and
now I have that font available to me.
I do need to just set it in Tailwind,
but if I wasn't using Tailwind,
I could literally go to the body here and
say like font-family.
Right, that would work.
I'm gonna put in my tailwind theme.
Both are equally fine ways of doing this,
whichever one makes you happier.
I'm gonna do the one that I do for
a living here though.
So this is where I'm gonna
extend the current theme
cuz I wanna keep the monospace
font in this case.
And I'll say fontFamily, I'm gonna
replace a Sans-serif font with it.
Cool, and that's a great way for if you're
using the free fonts and you don't want to
copy and paste a bunch of link tags or
anything along those lines.
The other reason I really
like using font source for
this, which is you can also
use an import in JavaScript,
which means if you're only using
a font in one component, right?
Then it'll be lazily loaded when that
component gets lazily loaded as long
as you have anything that is tree shaking.
So there's performance reasons as well.
But yeah, and also we programmatically
switch it out because
Open Source we can only use free fonts for
the licensing.
But on our website and
stuff like that we use proprietary fonts.
So having to be programmatic makes my
life easier, because I can code and
use environment variables and
stuff like that.
Cool, so I've got all of that in place,
so we got fonts,
we got our own unique colors.
We will need to go ahead and
refactor this in a second.
I think I was playing with
stuff earlier in there.
We do need a way to deal with the idea
of like, I have primary, a secondary,
there could be a ghost button.
But we need some better strategies for
managing the style of every variant.
So we'll talk about
about that momentarily.
>> What would be the approach for Sass?
>> I mean, if we were doing figma,
starting from there, literally,
the amazing part about
this is you can also
export a bunch of Sass aliases as well.
And then you would use these tokens
throughout your codebase, right?
If I grab the component colors as well.
But yeah, it could be setting
up Sass variables like this.
It could be setting up CSS variables and
referencing them.
It doesn't really matter
which strategy you use,
that's coz it's more
the conceptual approach.
But your variables will vary slightly
based on which technology that you use.